---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Markdown for Science Workshop on June 8th"
description: ""
category:
tags: [markdown, meeting]
---
On Saturday June 8th – exactly a month from today – the PLOS San
Francisco offices will host a workshop/hackathon about using markdown
for science. A lot of people are experimenting with markdown for
authoring scientific articles – see blog
posts [here](http://blog.yoavram.com/markx/), [here](http://inundata.org/2012/06/01/markdown-and-the-future-of-collaborative-manuscript-writing/) or
my post
[here](/2012/12/13/a-call-for-scholarly-markdown/),
and the scientific manuscript
[here](https://github.com/weecology/data-sharing-paper/).<!--more-->

Markdown is a simple markup language for text, and is primarily used for
HTML content on the web, but can also be converted to PDF, LaTeX and
others. One challenge with markdown is that there are a number of
slightly different “flavors” out there, from the original markdown to
multimarkdown, github-flavored markdown and pandoc. Some of the advanced
formatting of scientific documents – tables, citations, math – is still
a challenge for markdown.

Will markdown become our next authoring format for scientific content?
Will there be yet another flavor, scholarly markdown? How will markdown
writing tools be different from LaTeX tools or Microsoft Word? If you
care about any of these questions and are in or near San Francisco, join
us on for all full day on June 8th. Free registration is open at
[http://mdsci13.eventbrite.com](http://mdsci13.eventbrite.com). We are
collecting workshop ideas
at [https://github.com/karthikram/markdown\_science/wiki/workshop](https://github.com/karthikram/markdown_science/wiki/workshop),
the Twitter hashtag is \#mdsci13.

This event is organized by [Stian
Håklev](http://twitter.com/houshuang "Stian Håklev") and myself, with
generous support by a [1K Challenge prize from
Force11](http://www.force11.org/node/4358), and hosting provided by
PLOS.
